---
title: Episode 12 - Lots About Books - November 17, 2024
date: 2024-11-17
img_path: /images/posts/12
---

# Cast of Characters

| Player | Character                              | Background                                                      |
|--------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| John   | Keeper                                 | Bringer of torment and delights                                 |
| Todd   | Lawrence "Skinny Larry" Simons         | Inventor, saxophonist, and engineer                             |
| Eric   | Father Gerald "Gentleman Jerry" O’Shea | Catholic priest, former bare-knuckles boxer                     |
| Eli    | Dr. Kenneth Filmore                    | Wealthy medical doctor and neurosurgeon                         |
| Cyle   | Aaron Winters                          | Occultist                                                       |


## Not Present

| Player | Character                              | Background                                                      |
|--------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Scott  | Ritter Gunter "Stig" von Stiglitz      | Former German POW                                               |



# Journal


## Wednesday January 21, 1925


### From the journal of Lawrence Simons

Hard to believe it's only been 6 days since Jackson Elias died. It feels like we've been in the Carlyle Library half that time, but it's only been a few hours. Of the 4 books Erica has been holding on to for Roger, 3 are in English and 1 is in French. Since I can't read French, I decided to browse through *The Pnakotic Manuscript*. It had a couple of rituals described - some might call them "spells" - Contact Winged One and Contact Mind of the Observer. Skimming this book made me think about some things I'm not sure are good for normal folks to know about.

I think with good light, I could take a photograph of the pages of the rituals, but I don't believe I will. It's just as well that knowledge stay here in the Carlyle Library. My comrades also read through one book each. We didn't really find any great clues, but we all agree Robert had unusual reading interests.

Making a list of loose ends we ought to follow up on:

* the upcoming eclipse party
* Miss Bunay, the mysterious African companion of Roger Carlyle who doesn't appear in any photos and has some sort of East African accent
* personal backgrounds of the other principals of the Carlyle Expedition
* Jack Brady was Roger's bodyguard and friend; he served in the US Marines in Shanghai during the Great War

After leaving the Carlyle Estate, we visited a bookstore to try to learn the value of Robert's book. We think we'd like to make Erica an offer for them. Pricing the books was hard to do, though, because they're so unusual. To the right person, they could be worth a fortune, but to most people they're just crazy pulp.

In the end, we telephoned the Carlyles and made a verbal offer to Mr. Gray that we could pay Miss Carlyle $2500 for the books, and keep their transfer a secret. We think she'll go for it, but don't know. That's all the money we can afford, according to Mr. Carlton Ramsey, the keeper of our funds.