---
title: Episode 8 - Denial Ain't Just Some River in Egypt - September 8, 2024
date: 2024-09-08
---

# Cast of Characters

| Player | Character | Background                                  |
|--------|-----------|----------------------------------------------|
| John   | Keeper    |
| Todd   |"Skinny Larry" Simons | Inventor and jazz musician |
| Eric   | Gerald “Gentleman Jerry” O’Shea | Former bare-knuckles boxer |
| Scott  | Ritter Gunter von Stiglitz | Former German POW |


## Not Present

| Player | Character | Background                                  |
|--------|-----------|----------------------------------------------|
| Cyle   | Aaron Winters | Occultist |
| Tom    | Oxford "Ox" Sykes | Chemist and well-to-do ne’er-do-well |


# Reminders about Jackson Elias

What you know about your friend Jackson Elias:

You remember Jackson Elias as an African-American man of medium height and build. He has a feisty, friendly air about him. As an orphan in Stratford, Connecticut, he learned to make his own way early in life. He has no living relatives, and no permanent address.

You like him, and value his friendship, even though months and sometimes years separate one meeting from the next. You'd be upset and probably crave vengeance if anything happened to your friend. The world is a better place for having Jackson Elias in it.

Elias speaks several languages fluently and is constantly traveling. He is social, enjoys an occasional drink, and smokes a pipe. A tough, stable, and punctual man, Elias is unafraid of brawls or officials.

He is mostly self-educated. Once a skeptic, Elias began to question his stance after the events he witnessed in the mountains of Peru, although in most cases he has failed to find proof of supernatural powers, magic, or dark gods. His well-researched works always seem to reflect first-hand experience. Possibly his greatest flaw is that he's secretive, and never discusses a project until he has a final draft in hand.

His writings characterize and analyze death cults. His best-known book is Sons of Death, exposing modern-day Thuggee cults in India. All of his books illustrate how cults manipulate the fears of their followers. Insanity and feelings of inadequacy characterize death cultists; feelings for which they compensate by slaughtering innocents to make themselves feel powerful or chosen. Cults draw the weak-minded, though cult leaders are usually clever and manipulative. When fear of a cult stops, the cult vanishes.

Elias' published works include:

* Skulls Along the River (1910)-exposes headhunter cults in the Amazon basin.
* Masters of the Black Arts (1912)-surveys supposed sorcerous cults throughout history.
* The Way of Terror (1913)- analyzes systematization of fear through cult organization; warmly reviewed by George Sorel.
* The Smoking Heart (1915)-first half discusses historical Mayan death cults, the second half concerns present-day Central American death cults.
* Sons of Death (1918)-modern-day Thuggees; Elias infiltrated the cult and wrote a book about it.
* Witch Cults of England (1920)-summarizes covens in nine English counties; interviews practicing English witches; Rebecca West thought some of the material trivial and overworked.
* The Black Power (1921)-expands upon The Way of Terror and includes some material on Asian and African death cults; includes interviews with several anonymous cult leaders.
* The Hungry Dead (1923)-exposes the modern-day survival of a Peruvian and Bolivian death cult from the time of the conquistadors. It omits many of the weirder details that those who accompanied Elias on his researches may remember, presenting the cult of the kharisiri as a purely human evil.

All of these books are published by Prospero House of New York City, and were edited by owner/editor Jonah Kensington. Kensington is a good friend of Jackson Elias and someone you may have previously met.



# News Stories

Here is some old news, backstory, and clues relevant to the next adventure.


## Old Message from Jackson Elias

> HAVE INFORMATION CONCERNING CARLYLE EXPEDITION STOP
> NEED RELIABLE INVESTIGATIVE TEAM STOP
> MEET JANUARY 15 NEW YORK STOP
> JACKSON ELIAS


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, April 4th, 1919

BIG APPLE DATELINE

ROGER CARLYLE the playboy whome everybody knows - or knows about - is quietly leaving New Yawk tomorrow to check out the tombs of Egypt!  You've seen the cuties ROGER has found in the nightspots.  Who can doubt he'll dig up someone - er, something - equally fabulous from the Egyptian sands?


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, April 5th, 1919

CARLYLE EXPEDITION EMBARKS FOR LONDON

Led by the fabulously wealthy playboy Roger Carlyle, the Carlyle Expedition departed this morning for Southampton aboard the British steamship Imperial Standard

Contrary to earlier reports, the expedition will perform researches in London under the auspices of the Penhew Foundation before continuing to Egypt next month.

Readers may recall the enormous party which Mr. Carlyle, now 24, gave at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel upon reaching his majority.  Since then, scandals and indelicate behavior have become Carlyle's trademark, but he has never become tarnished in the eyes of Manhattanites.

Members of the expedition have been reluctant to reveal their purpose in Egypt.

OTHER EXPEDITION MEMBERS

Renowned Egyptologist Sir Aubrey Penhew is assistant leader of the team, and in charge of excavations.

Dr. Robert Huston, a fashionable "Freudian" psychologist, accompanies the expedition to pursue parallel researches into ancient pictographs.

Miss Hypatia Masters, linked in the past to Carlyle, will act as photographer and archivist.  Mr. Jack Brady, intimate to Mr. Carlyle, accompanies the group as general factotum.

Additional members may be secured while in London.


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, July 4th, 1919

CARLYLE DEPARTS EGYPT

CAIRO (AP)--Sir Aubrey Penhew, temporary spokesman for the Carlyle Expedition, indicated Thursday that the leaders are taking ship to East Africa for a "well-earned rest."

Sir Aubrey debunked rumors that the expedition had discovered clues to the legendary wealth of the lost mines of King Solomon, maintaining that the party was going on safari "in respite from our sandy labors."

Roger Carlyle, wealthy New York leader of the expedition, was unavailable for comment, still suffering from his recent sunstroke.

Discussing that unfortunate incident, local experts declared Egypt entire too hot for Anglo-Saxons at this time of year, and suggested that the young American had not been well served by his democratic enthusiasm, rumored to have led him to personally wield pick and shovel.


## From the *New York Pillar/Riposte*, July 31st, 1919

IMPORTANT VISITORS

MOMBASA (Reuters)-- Leading members of an American archaeological expedition arrived here on holiday from digs in Egypts Nile Valley.

Our Undersecretary, Mr. Royston Whittingdon, held a welcoming dinner for them at Collingswood House, where the wit of Sir Aubrey Penhew, expedition co-leader, was much in evidence. Accompanying Sir Aubrey are the youthful financier Roger Carlyle and medical doctor Rober Huston, as well as socialite Miss Hypatia Masters.

The party leaves inland today, for Nairoby and hunting.


## From the *New York Pillar/Riposte*, October 15th, 1919

CARLYLE EXPEDITION FEARED LOST

MOMBASA (Reuters)--Uplands police representatives today asked for public assistance concerning the possible disappearance of the Carlyle Expedition. No word of the party has been received in nearly two months.

The group includes wealthy playboy Roger Carlyle and four other American citizens, as well as Egyptologist Sir Aubrey Penhew of the United Kingdom.

The expedition left Nairobi on August 3rd, ostensibly on safari, but rumor insisted that they actually were after legendary Biblical treasures. Carlyle and his party reportedly intended to explore portions of the Great Rift Valley, to the northwest of Nairobi.


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, March 11th, 1920

ERICA CARLYLE ARRIVES IN AFRICA

MOMBASA (Reuters)--In response to clues, Miss Erica Carlyle, sister to the American leader of the lost Carlyle Expedition, arrived in port today aboard the Egyptian vessel Fount of Life.

Several Kikuyu-villager reports recently have been received concerning the putative massacre of unnamed whites near the Aberdare Forest.

Miss Carlyle declared her intention to find her brother, regardless of the effort needed.  She brought with her the nucleus of a large expedition.

Detailing agents to coordinate supply and other activites with Colony representives, Miss Carlyle and the remainder of her party depart for Nairobi tomorrow.

Her companion, Mrs. Victoria Post, indirectly emphasized Miss Carlyle's purposefulness by recounting the rigors of the voyage.


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, May 24th, 1920

CARLYLE MASSACRE CONFIRMED

NAIROBI (Reuters)-- The massacre of the long-missing Carlyle Expedition was confirmed today by district police representitives.

Roger Carlyle, New York's rollicking playboy, is counted among the dead.

Authorities blame hostile Nandi tribesmen for the shocking murders. Remains fo at least two dozen expedition members and bearers are thought found in a remote region of the Aberdare Forest.

Erica Carlyle, Roger Carlyle's sister and apparent heiress to the Carlyle family fortune, led the dangerous search for her brother and his party.  She credited Kikuyu tribesmen for the discovery, although police actually found the site.

Among other expedition members believed lost are Sir Aubrey Penhew, noted Egyptologist; New York socialite Hypatia Masters, and Dr. Robert Huston. Many bearers also are reported dead.


## From the New York Pillar/Riposte, June 19th, 1920

MURDERERS HANGED

NAIROBI (Reuters)--Five Nandi tribesmen, convicted ringleaders of the vicious Carlyle Expedition massacre, were executed this morning after a short, expertly-conducted trial.

To the end, the tribesmen steadfastly refused to reveal why they had slaughtered Mr. Carlyle and his companions.  Mr. Harvis, acting for the Colony, cleverly implied throughout the trial that the massacre was racial in motivation, and that the fair-skinned victims were subject to the most savage treatment, preventing all but the most preliminary identification of the remains.

Miss Erica Carlyle, defeated in her efforts to rescue her brother, left several weeks ago, but is surely comforted now by the triumph of justice.


# Journal

From the journal of Lawrence Simons:

## Thursday January 15, 1925

It's been years since any of us saw Jackson Elias in person, but he has summoned us to a meeting in New York City. On a snowy winter day, we arrived at room 410, rapped on the door, and got no response. A hotel maid let us in, which is where we witnessed three goons standing over Jackson's corpse. The killed him with a knife, and we got let 'em have it.

When all was said and done, we had one live and one dead goon to hand over to the police. Lt. Martin Pool was the beat cop we met. He said this was the 9th such murder, and we got handed off to Pool's superior, Captain Robson, a man who looks too well dressed to be a civil servant.

Our friend Jackson's funeral was scheduled for January 17 at Cypress Hills. Having already booked rooms for a stay in NYC, we returned there to regroup, before setting out in search of clues. Some shorthand notes:

* we have an appointment for the 18th at Sing Sing prison to meet Hilton Adams
* Adams was arrested and convicted for the last murder, but we think he was framed
* so does Rebecca Shosenberg, reporter with the New York Times
* the dates of the previous string of murders were one lunar month apart, but this latest one - Jackson's - doesn't fit
* we talked to Captain Robson, and started to get the impression he's not New York's finest

I took an immediate liking to Miss Shosenberg, and asked her to join me for a night on the town. We went to a club later that evening. But first there was more clue gathering:

* Emerson Imports
* agent for Mombasan exporter Asa Sing
* Ju Ju House at 1 Ransom Court is run by Silas N'Kwame, an elderly Mombasan

## Friday January 16, 1925

We made arrangements to meet Millie Adams, the wife of Hilton Adams, at the Lafayette Theater tomorrow.

We also visited Jackson Elias' publisher, and got all his notes.

Also learned Carleton Ramsey is Elias' lawyer. There's some talk about Elias having a will, and maybe we're in it.

