---
title: Episode 23 - Fight Like an Egyptian - July 13, 2025
date: 2025-07-13
---

# Cast of Characters


## Present

| Player | Character                              | Background                                                      |
|--------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| John   | Keeper                                 | Dreamer of dreams                                               |
| Todd   | Lawrence "Skinny Larry" Simons         | Dynamite fanatic, saxophonist, inventor, ladies man             |
| Eric   | Father Gerald "Gentleman Jerry" O’Shea | Catholic priest, pugilist                                       |
| Cyle   | Aaron Winters                          | Occultist, child of occultists, sharpshooter                    |
| Scott  | Ritter Gunter "Stig" von Stiglitz      | Wealthy German confronting shell shock                          |


## Sleeping it Off

| Player | Character                              | Background                                                      |
|--------|----------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| Eli    | Dr. Kenneth Filmore                    | Wealthy doctor and automobile enthusiast                        |


# Journal


## From the journal of Lawrence Simons


### Monday, February 23, 1925, afternoon

* As planned, we broke into the Blue Pyramid. There was one guard. We subdued him and put him in the men's room. Once upstairs, we found the cleaning crew, and we put them in a separate room. We tried to make it look like we were burglars, there to steal the money from the bar.
* In no time we found the trap door, and opened it. There was a ladder leading down into a large room on the ground level of the building. It was a store room, basically, with coffee, alcohol, tea, drinking glasses, etc. There was also an area where they had been holding prisoners using manacles.
* We found four boxes with various items that was apparently supposed to be delivered. The boxes had a wide array of items - food, soap, spices. And the labels on the boxes indicated they were to be delivered to "Mizr House". We later learned Mizr is the Arabic word for Egypt. And they were meant to be delivered today, February 23. And Aaron pointed out that this happens to be the night of the new moon, which has some occult significance.
* We took the crates to our acquaintance Mickey Mahoney, publisher of *The Scoop*. He had unfortunately not heard of Mizr House, so then we called Inspector Barrington. The name rang a bell with him, and he said to call back after while.
* When we called back, he remembered the significance. Mizr House is the name of an estate belonging to Edward Gavigan. It's northeast of London. So we rented a truck, loaded up the boxes, and headed out.
* Our general ruse was that we were going to pretend to be the delivery crew bringing the boxes in for the delivery. We hoped nobody would find it odd that a ragtag bunch of Americans with an Irish priest and a German were delivering these things. The drive was two hours.
* After crossing a bridge, we got to the gate of the manor house. A guard game out of a guard shack, and we jumped him with a surprise attack. We knocked him out and tied him up in the woods, before driving the rest of the way up to the house.
* When we arrived, there were some vehicles out front, and I stole the keys to some of them, but sadly not the Bentley. We parked the truck around back and went into the house. I put on a servant uniform and loaded the four boxes up on a dolly, and brought them inside, maintaining something of a disguise, implausible as it might seem.
* We headed down stairs to the basement, and found the servants' quarters first. Exploring deeper, we found a room with racks holding white cultist robes. Each robe was decorated with the inverted ankh of the (supposed extinct) Brotherhood of the Black Pharoah. 
* I guess this counts as proof that Edward Gavigan is a lying bastard, since he told us to our faces that the Brotherhood is extinct, and yet we found their robes in his own house! If I get my hands on that guy, there will be trouble.
* We went back upstairs and explored some more. We found water closets, a great hall, two suits of armor flanking a fireplace, doors, a dining table set for three, and a library. The whole house is decorated with Egyptian knick knacks.
* As we all had a hunch about, the armor triggered a secret door, which led down some stairs to a good old fashioned torture chamber. There were racks, an iron maiden, etc. Also, there were ten cells, three of which were occupied! We let the prisoners out, and they were very grateful. In all three cases, they had seen something they weren't supposed to, they said.
* We decided we should get the prisoners out of here ASAP, so we headed for the exit. But on the way up the stairs we were surprised by the brute squad. They attacked us, we attacked back. I blew one into about six pieces with a shotgun blast at point blank range. Aaron took the worst beating of any of us, but we all got away and out to the truck. We blew through the gate on the way out, and headed back to London with the prisoners and one of the brutes. We plan to turn him over to the Inspector for questioning. But first we have to survive traffic inbound on the A13.